.\" Copyright (c) 1989 Lars Fredriksen, Bryan So and Barton Miller
.\" All rights reserved.  
.\"
.\"	@(#)ptyjig.1
.\"
.TH PTYJIG 1 "December 1, 1988"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ptyjig \- pseudo-terminal pipe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ptyjig
[ option ] ...
command 
[ args ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ptyjig
executes the Unix 
.I command
with 
.I args
as its arguments if supplied.  
The standard input of ptyjig is piped to 
.I command
as if typed at a terminal.
Ptyjig is expected to be used with \fIfuzz(1)\fP to test interactive
(terminal based) programs. If the test program is stopped by a
Control-Z, it is resumed immediately.
.PP
The following options can be specified.
.TP
.B \-e
Do not send EOF character after \fIstdin\fP has exhausted.
.TP
.B \-s
Do not process interrupt signals, such as SIGINT, SIGQUIT and SIGSTOP.
.TP
.B \-x
Do not write output from \fIcommand\fP to \fIstdout\fP.
.TP
.BI \-i " file"
Save the input stream sent to \fIcommand\fP into \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Save the output produced by \fIcommand\fP into \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-d " delay"
Wait \fIdelay\fP seconds after sending each character. 
.TP
.BI \-t " interval"
If input has exhausted but \fIcommand\fP has
neither exited nor sent any output, exit after \fIinterval\fP
seconds. Default is 2.0 seconds.
.TP
\fIDelay\fP and \fIinterval\fP can have fractions.
.SH EXAMPLE
ptyjig -o out -d 0.2 -t 10 vi text1 <text2
.PP
Runs "vi text1" in background, typing the characters in \fItext2\fP
into it with a delay of 0.2sec between characters, and save the
output to \fIout\fP. The program stops when \fIvi\fP stops outputting
for 10 seconds.
.SH AUTHORS
Lars Fredriksen, Bryan So.
.SH FILES
/dev/tty*
.br
/dev/pty*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fuzz(1), sigvec(2), pty(4), tty(4)
.SH BUGS
The trace files specified by \-i and \-o options may contain more
than actual characters sent to and received from \fIcommand\fP. This
is due to the fact that after \fIcommand\fP exits and before \fIptyjig\fP
is signaled, some characters may be sent. This can be prevented by
setting \-d option to some suitable delay.
